# Why this book

When starting a project there's plenty of open source tools, videos, and blog posts showing the ins
and outs of various aspects. Whether how to build an
image detector, build your own 3d printer, or learn how to weld there's plenty of content showing
*how* to do a thing. In addition to how to instructions there are plethora of templates
to help newcomers get started in a plug and play fashion, for example robot kits or open source
frameworks. This content is generated by [open community](https://en.wikiversity.org/wiki/Open_community_approach)
which strives to freely share information

But if you planning a conference for your open community there is a dearth of information. 
Ironically the communities that are so good at sharing how to do a thing, aren't so good
about sharing the information about how to plan a conference around that thing.

This is my experience. I'm part of numerous open communities that run conferences, and while, in
my opinion, we do a great job running conferences to share ideas around various topics like code,
infosec, cooking, lockpicking, and Bayesian Statistics, but ironically not how to plan the
conference itself.

I fully believe that any community that wants to run a conference to benefit their community
is capable of running said conference. In this book I aim to show you how.

## Why now
As I'm writing this book COVID is resurging around the world. The unfortunate side effect is that
many of us as being asked to socially distance, and while this is beneficial for our physical health
is hard mentally. In reading this book I hope folks that are looking to bring people together
are both inspired to do so, and also find a playbook on how to make it happen, for the benefit
of all involved.

## Please pardon the dust
I'm writing this book in an "Open Source Software" fashion, where I write a prototype quickly
to get the ideas out there, and build and improve on the core sections over time, particularly
with community input. Given the COVID pandemic I particularly want to empower people as quickly
as possible.

As a reader expect this book to be in an *alpha* state. For now there'll be rough edges and typos.
As the book moves into the traditional beta and 


